ÊINTRODUCTIONSince Microsoft Windows 3.1 was introduced, Windows users have had the capability to display and print TrueType fonts. Because TrueType fonts are self-contained and portable, the only thing preventing the easy interchange of fonts between the Mac and Windows is how the fonts are stored.The Mac stores its TrueType fonts as 'sfnt' resources, along with the 'FOND' resource that all Mac font families must have, and Windows stores its TrueType fonts in .TTF files (files with a .TTF extension). Except for the location, the actual font data is usually completely compatible. TTConverter is designed to move this font data between the 'sfnt' resources and .TTF files so it is possible to use TrueType fonts created in one operating system with the other.CONVERTING FONTSThere are two ways you can convert fonts. The Convert command in the File menu lets you select a single file to convert. With the Filter Files on Open option turned on, only files ending with .TTF and Mac TrueType fonts will be shown. TTConverter also supports drag and drop conversions under System 7. Drag any number of font files onto TTConverter and it will convert them and quit. If you convert a font suitcase, all TrueType fonts contained in the suitcase will be converted.A special Save dialog will appear for every font being converted. This dialog lets you choose where to save the converted file. If more than one file or files remains to be converted, a Save All button will be displayed below the Save button.ÊWhen converting from a Windows font, the dialog will also have a Customize FOND button at the bottom. The FOND resource tells the Mac a number of things about a font, the most important being which family the font belongs to and its style. You can alter every aspect of the default FOND generated by TTConverter. As shown below, you can change the font name as it will appear in font menus and its PostScript name. If you donƠt know what a field or option does, donƠt mess with it. Practically no one will need to edit anything other than the font name, family ID, and style settings.ÊOPTIONSDelete .TTF Files: After a .TTF file is successfully converted to Mac format it will be deleted.Create Suitcases: If this option is on, fonts will be saved in suitcases rather than System 7Ơs single font format.ÊCompress Font Names: With this option turned on TTConverter will ̉compressÓ the style information at the end of a font name. All references to a plain style are removed and only the first letter of other style information is included. For example, ̉Book Antiqua RegularÓ is compressed to ̉Book AntiquaÓ and ̉Arial Bold ItalicÓ is compressed to ̉Arial BIÓ.Delete Mac Files: After a Mac TrueType file has been successfully converted it will be deleted.Convert .TTF Filenames: The option provides a way of automatically naming a new Windows font file within the MS-DOS filename limits (8 characters with a 3 character extension).Filter Files on Open: Only TrueType files will be shown in the ConvertÉ file selection dialog.Use Style Info:  This option will automatically set the style in the FOND to what is stored in the font itself. If you are building many families, this will speed things up.BUILDING FAMILIESIt is often convenient to have a family of fonts that contains all the basic styles (plain, bold, italic, and bold italic) take up a single menu item rather than one for each style. The other correct font is automatically selected when you change the style in the Style menu. Several of the standard Mac TrueType fonts do this, and it relatively easy to make your converted fonts do it too. You must be running System 7 to follow the instructions given here.The process goes like this. Make sure that TTConverter has the Create Suitcases option set. If you want, you can also turn on the Use Style Info option. When the save dialog comes up for the first font in the family, click the Customize FOND button. Remember or write down the Family ID. If the Font Name has stylistic extension (Regular, Bold, etc.) after the family name, delete it. Next, make sure the Bold and Italic checkboxes are set correctly. Save that font in a suitcase with the same name as the family. For each additional font in the family, set the Family ID to the same as the first font you converted and remove any style information from its name. Save them in unique files. When all the fonts in the family are converted, use the Finder to drag all but the first suitcase onto the first (the one with the familyƠs name). The Finder will automatically combine them into a single family.KNOWN CONVERSION PROBLEMSIf you are having problems moving Windows fonts to the Mac, make sure the filenames end with .TTF and not .T__, which are specially compressed files that TTConverter cannot open and no Mac program I know of can decompress them. If you have access to a Windows machine, you can install them on that machine and transfer the installed font files (they will now be TTF files) to the Mac for conversion.Apparently, some fonts have wierd characters at the beginning of their names which cause them to appear out of alphabetical order in font menus. You should be able to remedy this by reconverting them and clicking the Customize FOND button and retyping the Font Name field. Use the tab key to cycle through the fields to make sure ALL the text is selected, including any invisible characters.Not all fonts work on ̉the other side.Ó Sometimes Windows refuses to recognize a converted Mac font, so you canƠt install it (so far, Chicago has never worked). There are also problems with printing some converted Windows fonts on a PostScript printer from the Mac. They look and work fine on the screen and with QuickDraw printers, but they just wonƠt print on a PostScript printer.TTConverter has been tested on a Macintosh IIcx and LC II under System 7 and a IIsi under System 6. Printing converted fonts has been tested on a LaserWriter IINT and an ImageWriter II under System 7, and a Personal LaserWriter NT under System 6.PIRATING FONTSPlease donƠt use TTConverter to convert copyrighted fonts for illegal purposes (like reselling on a different platform). I wrote TTConverter to allow users to work with the same set of fonts on two machines, not to let someone profit from anotherƠs work. If youƠre concerned about copyright infringement, review your fontƠs licsensing agreement or call the companyÑIƠll leave the interpretation up to you.REGISTRATIONIf you use any fonts you convert with TTConverter, you are required pay the shareware fee of $10. TTConverter is a copyrighted program, but you can distribute it to your friends and over BBSs or online services that do not specifically charge for downloadsÑan hourly rate does not countÑas long as you include all files that were included with this version. You may not distribute TTConverter for commericial purposes without my permission.Please use the included form form you register. Of course, registered users don't have to register new versions again. By the way, when you fill out the form, donƠt forget about the Email Address(es) field! I like to use email when I can.I would like to hear from anyone who has questions, comments, complaints, bug reports, suggestions, etc. You can reach me in any of the following ways, in order of preference:Internet: creed@ccwf.cc.utexas.eduAmerica Online: ChrisreedInternet via America Online: chrisreed@aol.comChris Reed3409 Clearview DriveSan Angelo TX 76904-8108DISCLAIMERI am not responsible for anything TTConverter, or any converted font, does or does not do to your system. In fact, the only thing TTConverter is guaranteed to do is take up disk space. I am also not responsible for illegal use of TTConverter. There is no warranty.---Share and enjoy!